Like to welcome everyone to the guts and
heart of our lecture on applications
of business analytics in marketing.
I always like to teach stuff
right from the front slide.
And if you notice here, the slide says
underneath the future of marketing and
then in parenthesis, science.
And the reason I say
this is because to me,
the future of marketing
is business analytics.
There's no firm today that should
be thinking purely mass marketing,
there should be no firm today that isn't
thinking about individual level customers.
There isn't any firm today that
shouldn't be using technology to measure
their customers better and
the reason in parentheses science is now
that you can measure stuff,
marketing really has become a science.
Meaning, we have data.
We talked about that in my introduction,
that's kind of the first step,
what data have you captured?
We have ways to explore that data.
There's ways to explore
massive datasets today.
Third thing,
we have models that we can build.
We have ways we can optimize and
then we can make business decisions.
To me, that sounds like a science.
And so again, the focus of this
lecture will be on applications of
business analytics in marketing.
The first,
if you like question I always like to ask
is how do you compute corporate profits?
Now you might say, well,
that's not a hard question.
Revenues minus cost,
that's corporate profits.
And I say, sort of, I mean, yes from
a finance perspective that might be right,
but not from a marketing
analytics perspective.
From a marketing analytics perspective,
you should be thinking not of,
if you like, imagine a matrix where
the rows are your customers and
the columns are the products they buy and
the entries of the matrix are how much
did they spend on a given product.
And of course, some of them can be zeroes,
they didn't buy any of the products.
But if you wanna think about
it that way most people say,
I'll just add up the columns.
I'll see how much each product makes.
I'll see what it costs to make
that product, and I'll compute
corporate profits and a marketing view of
business analytics are just the opposite.
The columns aren't your profit centers.
The products aren't your profit centers,
but the rows are your profit centers.
You should be thinking of each customer.
How much should I sell to each customer?
What does it cost me to
serve that customer?
How much profit do I
make from each customer?
And then I add up the rows.
And hopefully, all of you guys remember,
it was probably eighth grade math for
most of us.
Whether you add up a table of
numbers from a columns or the rows,
the sum is still the same.
So the classic finance way of thinking
about profits is revenue minus cost.
The classic business analytics and
marketing way of thinking about profits
is how much revenue minus cost
do I get from each customer and
let's add it up over all the customers.
Now the advantage of thinking of marketing
analytics that way is that some customers
have a negative value.
What should you do?
You fire those customers.
Some customers have a lot of value to the
firm, those are the ones you have to not
only cultivate and retain, but
you have to find tons more of them.
So even just on this
first substantive slide,
you can see in a way how the mindset
of marketing analytics works.
It works one customer at a time.
So again,
make profit one customer at a time.
And that really is gonna be the underlying
theme for the rest of these slides,
I'm gonna tell you how leading
firms like Google and Amazon, etc.
Think about making one profit
one customer at a time and
how really technology has changed that.
So if you'd like, it's really
the intersection of technology,
data and statistics that have
made business analytics and
marketing kind of the science
that it is today.
So let me just start with
what is customer analytics?
And it might seem like an obvious
thing for many of you,
it took us actually seven years
to write this definition.
And you might say, wait,
you've been doing this for 20 years and
it took you 7 years to write
what this definition is.
And the answer is yes,
that is how long it took.
But if you look at what we've said,
customer analytics refers
to the collection.
So first of all, you have to have data and
you have to collect it.
As I said in my introduction,
if you don't measure it,
it's almost like it didn't happen.
Second is the management of the data.
So there has to be someone that can
collect these data into large databases.
And whether you store it in the cloud or
through to a server or locally,
someone has to manage the data.
You have to analyze the data.
Data in itself is data.
Data doesn't give you direct insights,
you have to analyze the data.
And then finally,
it's the strategic leverage of that data.
So customer analytics refers tot he
collection, management, analysis and
strategic leverage of an organization's
granular data about the behavior of its
customers.
The other part that's key is the granular
nature of what I just talked about,
which is again, going back to the though
about how you compute profits analytics.
Business analytics.
Customer analytics from a marketing
perspective is about granular data.
Track every customer at
the most granular level.
Next, you can see, again,
inherently granular.
It focuses on individual level behavior,
not aggregate patterns.
So the example that I love to use all the
time is if a firm wants to predict sales
in some state, very interesting,
very important business problem.
But that's not customer analytics, you
wanna compute it one customer at a time.
Secondly, it's behavioral.
The thing that's really changed 20
years ago when I started at DuPont and
I was working in their
customer marketing division.
When we wanted to know something
about customers, we surveyed them,
we asked them what they did.
But now, you can measure what they did.
And the old marketing expression
is what predicts behavior in
the future really well?
Behavior in the past.
Behavior predicts behavior a lot more than
what is called stated intention data fits
behavior.
Third, it's forward looking.
I spoke about this in the introduction
when I gave that old marketing joke.
Prediction's only hard when it's about
the future, but business analytics for
marketing is a forward looking science.
What are my customers going to do next?
Next, it's multi-platform.
So it's not just about what
you can measure on the web,
it's integration of online,
offline, survey data, etc.
If you'd like,
the language you'll hear all the time
out there is the problem of data fusion.
How do I fuse together data
from different platforms?
All of that is part of
marketing customer analytics.
It's broadly applicable.
So notice the word customer is in quotes.
So for example, if I'm Expedia,
then a customer could be someone that goes
to my website and is looking for a trip.
If I'm the American Red Cross, my customer
might be someone that donates to either
a charity or someone that donates blood.
If I'm a Pfizer like
a pharmaceutical company,
my customer might be a physician or
might be a consumer, direct to consumer.
So think of customer
in the most broad way.
And finally, it's multidisciplinary.
So if you're watching this Coursera course
and you're in a field of marketing,
statistics, computer science,
information science, operations research.
It's applicable to every
industry vertical.
It's applicable to retail and
pharmaceutical, telecom, etc.
The nice thing about the application
of customer analytics is that
it knows no industry boundaries and
it really is cross-disciplinary.
Just to say a few things for those of
you who wanna learn more about customer
analytics in marketing besides just
it's application in this course,
you can go to our website,
wcai.wharton.upenn.edu.
This is a center my
colleague Pete Fader and
I co-director on customer analytics and
you can take a look at how
we've applied customer analytics to
many different industries and problems